hey guys my name is david and you are
watching stories told
today i am going to explain a drama
mystery movie called grand piano
please be aware the video contains
spoilers we see a bunch of workers
entering an old but noble looking
theater looking for something
the clumsy men are trying to manage
getting a huge old piano wrapped in
cloth out of the room navigating between
seemingly treasurable items
we meet our main character tom selznick
he is terrified on a plane about to land
he's talking on the phone with a woman
who he's complaining to anxiously how he
doesn't want to get to his destination
and to play the piano wishing his limo
would crash on the way there
a stranger has to pick him up from the
airport instead of the lady he's been
talking to which stresses him out even
more
the woman on the phone is at a press
conference where her friends are trying
to invite them for pre-drinks before the
concert but tom has to be sharp so he
has to go straight to the theater emma
sent him the limo and the driver as a
gift and even an ipad so he can live in
the 21st century
they are having an interview on the
phone while he's sitting and changing
into formal clothing
tom has been retired from playing on
stage for five years now in matter of
minutes he is reuniting with the fco
harmony where they play significantly
difficult pieces
he says he will be playing on patrick's
piano who was the eccentric musician who
taught him how to play
the interviewer says that there is a
piece said to be unplayable the la
cinquette which tom has a bad history
with
he retired because of a huge public
failure five years ago and now he has to
play on the same piano and the same song
which caused him the humiliation back
then he enters the theater through the
back door where people already recognize
him and wish him to break a leg they are
being surprised he is still alive after
being out of the public eye for so many
years despite this everyone is happy
about his return here he meets an old
friend norman
who tells him his piano is just in
perfect shape
they see suspicious men on the security
cameras tom jokes about them being the
c.i.a but norman tells him they are just
the insurance guys for patrick's piano
norman says patrick loved that piano
more than his own family some people
still bully tom for messing up la
cinquete five years ago but he lies that
it doesn't really bother him
but his friend sees through him tom
reveals his true feelings that he thinks
patrick would not be proud that he's
playing his precious piano because he is
now the great screw-up
norman tries to comfort him that the
audience won't even notice if he plays
the wrong note because they never know
his wife emma
and her friends arrive but she tells
them they can't sit with her because she
has a vip place
we see the audience and the music crew
getting ready for the show
tom is nervously walking up and down in
his back room norman goes out on stage
while tom watches a man brings him his
score which he actually left in his
waiting room saving his whole
performance he then congratulates him
how the whole place is packed which
pushes tom even more on edge
he tears out a piece from the score with
anger it's time for tom to go on stage
he concentrates and waits for a while
before playing then starts hitting the
notes
we hear the calm soft piano then the
choir gets ready and starts to play
along with him the music gets more
exciting and faster
he notices a red arrow in his score
instructing him to turn the page he
looks at the confusing notes and then
sees a scribbled text with a red marker
play the wrong note and you die
he's looking around to see who's playing
the joke on him than just murmurs
he then turns the page again only to
find another note saying you think i'm
kidding
look to your right so he does finding a
red dot on his hand another message
waits for him on the next page call for
help and i'll shoot you between the eyes
he is now truly terrified he stands up
to walk off stage and to look for the
guy
he sees no one only the red.dancing on
his body leading him back to the piano
he has to play emma wants to go to him
to find out what's wrong but he sits
back and continues to play
he finds the next message saying play
the piano with the red light pointing to
it
the music is just as tense as the scene
is getting faster and deeper notes are
played
then it starts to slow down the next
marking tells tom to go to his dressing
room at the rest time because the
shooter has something for him the note
next to it says make emma proud
he rages out to the dressing room he
hears his phone buzzing it's a text from
the shooter
i see emma reach for a phone and i'll
shoot her with a picture of emma in her
seat
then another sms arrives instructing him
to the side of his backpack he rushes to
check it out finding a headset in there
he puts it on he hears a man's voice
telling him to get back on stage
he tries to find out who could it be and
asks him
patrick godaro the man answers tom
doesn't understand how could it really
be him but he doesn't believe him
calling it a prank to scare him
he thinks norman is behind this whole
fiasco the voice challenges him to a bet
the shooter bets it is not a prank tom
goes for no if the voice wins he will
shoot emma in the head if tom wins he
can tell the guy off tom threatens to
call the cops but the man has a friend
outside and if he sees a cop reports it
immediately and the shooter goes for
emma he has to go back to the left side
of the stage the man tells him to look
then shoots a silenced bullet into the
floor showing tom that he is in fact
serious
he has to get back to play or he kills
emma if he talks to anyone or stops
playing he will shoot his wife and him
as well
he tells tom if he plays the wrong note
he will die
tom doesn't understand how the man can
see him but he explains he has a private
box up high with a great view of him he
can see everything tom and emma does he
tells tom that emma is yawning that's
how bored she is of his music
the guy wants tom to play the best of
his life telling him what he thinks is
good will not be enough
tom says he will do it play through the
whole concert the very best he can but
he shouldn't even aim at emma he should
just stop thinking about hurting her
tom gets worried as he sees emma's seat
empty the shooter then plays a joke on
tom saying he already shot emma but
later he tells him he was just messing
around but that was enough to make tom
obey completely
in break time norman gives a speech
honoring tom then continues to tell the
audience about patrick's piano and how
this is the first time it's being played
on stage and how special this moment is
he then talks about patrick's death and
how it has been heartbreaking to all of
them
this performance is dedicated to him and
he even points out emma and thanks her
for being there
he says it's honoring to have such a
famous actress there supporting her
husband
the concert continues tom is trying to
grab his phone to call wayne his friend
in the audience he answers but ashley
grabs his phone in embarrassment for it
ringing so loud
wayne sees it's tom calling they think
it's a mistake he sees that tom is
talking on stage not simply just
counting his notes so he rushes to the
bathroom to call him but with his phone
buzzing the killer is getting suspicious
tom tries to lie about it but the
shooter doesn't really believe him but
lets it slide
tom sends a text to wayne to help emma
because she is in danger
he tries to go up to her on his way
there he meets the security to who he
explains the situation to but the guard
touches him when wayne tells him that he
has to get to emma the guard takes him
away on his back another surprise awaits
for tom he takes a look above his head
and sees wayne's dead body looking him
straight in the eye the voice says now
he has seen a dead body so he is ready
to play the la cinquette but tom says he
can't play it only few people can but he
isn't one of them
the voice says he can and he should he
tells him that emma has taken everything
away from him now that she has become
successful
he also tells him that he has to become
his own man again and this is his chance
with the la cinquette to achieve that
if he plays it perfectly they all walk
out alive ashley goes to look for wayne
only to find him dead
the killer attacks her too and kills her
as well tom runs off stage to find the
score for le cinquette with the voice
directing him
he tells him through it on the floor
earlier tom only finds the janitor in a
back room burning it along with other
trash he was too late he gets an idea
and goes for the ipad he just got
he downloads the notes and prints them
meanwhile emma is leaving the theater to
get some fresh air but the assistant and
the killer can't keep an eye on both tom
and emma so the assistant goes to follow
emma while tom remains out of sight in
the dressing room
emma then goes to see him but the
assistant follows her
tom is now in total panic he knows it's
one of the guys
the assistant guides emma back to her
seat tom feels like he has no control
anymore the assistant and the shooter
are also talking on a headset but there
is a malfunction so tom ends up hearing
them
he gets to know that the shooter wants
to obtain the piano that's why he's
doing all this
the shooter knows he heard it but it
doesn't really bother him
he tells him he knows that piano better
than anyone else an embedded lock in the
piano depends on a flawless performance
he further reveals that the release of
said lock would yield a key to a safe
deposit box containing patrick gotero's
disappeared fortune the shooter himself
is the locksmith who worked with patrick
to construct the mechanism
the lock that only someone with his
skills could ever open the shooter asks
how much money does he think justifies
his actions
how much money is tom's life worth he
asks him but tom truly can't answer
he doesn't care for money he also says
tom is not a real artist because he's
living on playing other people's stuff
so he has no imagination tom now found
the killer in the audience he knows
where he's sitting
he also agrees to playing the la sinkat
he has to take it easy at first to save
his fingers for the end norman announces
that they will play the tempest last but
tom interrupts by saying he will play
the la cinquette
norman goes along with the surprise
change and presents tom's last play the
unplayable lesingcat
tom says to the man that he will not
disappoint his audience he starts
playing the notes softly he is only
concentrating on the notes now the
shooter tries to interrupt to ease up to
not tire out his fingers he's obviously
keen to get that key
but tom just keeps on playing with fully
concentrating hitting every note
perfectly
the lock system is now slowly opening up
inside the piano but then he plays the
wrong note at the very end the man is
now raging his dreams of the fortune are
gone in a second tom says he did play
the wrong note but the audience does not
know
they never do the man tells him to play
again with the right notes or he'll kill
the audience is in awe clapping loudly
tom is giving thanks to his wife getting
all the lights on her
tom says this is not the end of
surprises and invites norman up there
for a last song
tom gets norman to play the piano with
emma singing the shooter's assistant is
now fleeing the voice says to tom that
he will now shoot emma so he starts
running to her
in the hallway he finally meets the
locksmith they start fighting tom falls
on the ground and sees the man already
killed his own assistant
tom is really struggling he's getting
choked by the killer when the gun falls
on one of the light pillars
the shooter is trying to reach for it
while tom pushes him they are both
trying to get the gun but it falls on
the stage
tom is standing on the pillars while the
locksmith escapes to a bridge
tom tries to jump there to avoid falling
the man grabs his hands as he still
needs him to open the lock
the bridge is too weak for both man and
it breaks the shooter falls on the piano
and tom hits the stage everybody starts
running away while screaming two dead
bodies are being taken out from the
theater they're two friends then after
them comes the assistant's body tom and
emma sit in shock in an ambulance emma
just really wants to go home but tom has
one thing left to do
he goes to the broken piano and he plays
the last four bars of la cinque
correctly but nothing happens
disappointed tom turns away until he
hears the gears of the internal lock
system turn and the sound of a metal key
hitting the floor
he bends down to pick it up as the
camera cuts to black
thank you for watching if you enjoyed
this video please leave a like and
subscribe
thanks